# APIs 
This section gives an overview on the APIs provided by Copernicus Data Space Ecosystem.

## Catalog APIs
There are various interfaces providing capability to search the catalog, to serve various users'
needs and to ensure continuity over the existing Copernicus Hubs. All interfaces are connected to
the same database to guarantee consistency.

#### 1. [STAC product catalog](APIs/STAC.md)

STAC data have become a de-facto standard in the EO community, also being onboarded to OGC at the moment. STAC items are provided for all online products, as well as for products generated by users within the Copernicus Data Space Ecosystem.

#### 2. [OData](APIs/OData.qmd)

OData is an SO/IEC approved, OASIS standard , which is based on http RESTful Application Programming Interfaces. It enables resources, which are identified by URLs and defined in a data
model, to be created and edited using simple HTTP messages. 

#### 3. [OpenSearch](APIs/OpenSearch.qmd)

The OpenSearch catalogue allows you to search through Copernicus data using a standardized web service. Search can be performed based on multiple attributes such as collection, spatial extent, time range, metadata. Orders can be based
on the data collection, area, time range or any other selection criteria available in the search APIs

#### Catalog APIs news
This section provides detailed information about upcoming changes and the changelog of the implemented updates. The releases include all Catalog APIs interfaces. To avoid disruption to your scripts or apps, we recommend reviewing the upcoming changes and the latest release notes described below:

##### 1.[ Upcoming Changes ](APIs/UpcomingChanges.qmd)
We've put together a list of potential updates related to Catalog APIs as of September 2023. You can find a detailed comparison of these changes [here](APIs/UpcomingChanges.qmd).

##### 2. [Release notes](APIs/ReleaseNotes.qmd)
The [release notes document](APIs/ReleaseNotes.qmd) provides you with a comprehensive list of modifications made to the Catalog APIs for every release.

## Streamlined data access

#### 1. [Sentinel Hub API](APIs/SentinelHub.md)

Sentinel Hub is a multi-spectral and multi-temporal big data satellite imagery service, capable of fully automated archiving, real-time processing and distribution of remote sensing data and related EO products. Users can use its APIs to retrieve satellite data over their AOI and specific time range from full archives in a matter of seconds.

#### 2. [openEO API](APIs/openEO/openEO.qmd)

With openEO’s collaborative nature, users can seamlessly share code, workflows, and data processing methods across platforms and tools, fostering collaboration and advancing the accessibility, scalability, and reproducibility of Earth observation data. Additionally, openEO provides intuitive programming libraries that enable easy analysis of diverse Earth observation datasets.

## Additionally 
### 1. [Download products using S3](APIs/S3.md)

S3 API is one of the main access methods for EO data. It is suitable for Third Party applications that require high-performance parallel access and scalability. Moreover, any user who wants to connect from an external infrastructure to the Copernicus Data Space Ecosystem collection can do so
through the S3 protocol.

### 2. [Traceability API](APIs/Traceability.md)

Traceability service allows user to verify and register traces for user level data available in the Copernicus Data Space. The general design of the Traceability Service centers around a REST API service. Users may interact with Traceability API either directly using e.g. curl, or through the open source Traceability command line utility.

### 3. [On-Demand Production API](APIs/On-Demand%20Production%20API.md)

On-demand processing capability for CARD-BS, CARD-COH6/12 is available on the Copernicus Data Space Ecosystem. This service is offered free to the use via a limited pool of resources, shared across all users, which can be used for processing the data free of charge. This is suitable for users who need to process smaller batches of products.



